
Google is the main search engine so SEO is really GSEO ( google search engine optimisation)

The competition is so low that it does not really matter to bother.

Google has a few different 'crawlers', they are going through websites and link through
a process called 'scrapping' which extracts content from websites and index them.

The 3 main criteria for a good website are the following

    1. Authority
        In simple terms, how many good and established websites are linking to yours

    2.Coherent
        Does the website matches the search intention of the user and the actual content
        corectly answers that intention

    3. Performance
        loading speed + no downtime 
        
Google will always display a mix of 
    - Optimised websites based on the 3 above
    - Direct links to videos that might correspond to the search intent
    - Websites that pays to be there.

Seo brings more organic traffic to a given website and allows for more successful
payed marketing campain. 

The main Algorythms at google are the following

    Panda 
        Penalize bad content, spam, repetitive content

    Pingouin 
        Verify the value of external links to your website. Basically if you have
        tons of links but from non related source your will get penalised. Main reason
        for Pingouin is to prevent malicious behaviors such as creating tons of websites
        linking to yours.

    HummingBird and Rankbrain
        Goes beyond content and understands more context and intent behing the search.
        Before google was mainly focused on keywords. Now Google tries to understand 
        the search intent behing what the user typed in the search bar in order to show
        him results that will answers is questions/search more precisely then just 
        looking for keywords. 
        ( this is super important, especially with the growth of voice recognition
         searches, more and more searches are formulated into questions)    

    Pigeon 
        Makes use of GoogleMap and will boost local search resutls. 
        ex- a user makes a search for 'best hot-dog'
        Pigeon will guess that the user wants to get local results based on his current
        position. So searching 'best hot-dog' while in Montreal vs searching the same thing 
        in New-York will probably not give the same results. 

2 main ways to optimise a website

    On-page

    1. Performance and speed ( main argument for using custom web vs wordpress solution)
    2. crawler friendly structure( more on that later)
    3. Text/Video content optimisation

    Off-page

    1. Links from established websites to yours


REACT AND SEO

Google crawlers don't work 100% with react because the DOM is mainly populated by
JavaScript. In order to optimise a React website, they are a few things to consider.
Since crawlers have a easier time with static HTML, we need to detect when it is
a robot or a user that is looking at the site. If it is a robot, server will send
him a plain HTML response using prerender.io. This will prevent error while indexing
the website by making sure that the crawlers are getting the right content.
( worst case scenario is that for X reason JavaScript dosent work proprely and 
the crawler is only able to see the root div and an empty page, which is not so
good for SEO). Since React is a one page website, we have to use the
React browser component( which we already do) so google can see which url correponds to which
page. The only problem is that the <head> remains the same which is a problem to determine
how much time a user stays on a certain page or section of the site, which is crucial
when it comes to analyse data with google analytics. To prevent
that we use the react-helmet library wich allows us to manage the <head> depending 
on the url. This way google analytics will work proprely for each 'pages'on the site.
We also need to manually install google analytics as for any custom. we will integrate 
the google analytics dashboard in the react-admin user interface.



SEO GOALS

    Always important to have well defined goals before trying to do anything. The process
    will be much easier.

    ex of valid goals - more sales, attract new clients, increase visibility, 
    build brand image, establish expertise, publish meaningful content... 


KPI ( key performance indexes) ( more on that on google analytics section)

    Most popular and used are 
        1. Number of unique visitors ( different user/ip having visited the page
            at least once)
        2. Pages visited by session
        3. Conversion rate ( sales, subscription...)
        4. Recurring visitors 


Once goal and KPI are fixed and ways to track them, time to improve SEO

Improving a website 

    1. Quick audit ( google lighthouse chromebrowsertools + 
                        http://nibbler.silktide.com)
    2. Keyword search
    3. Detailed audit 
    4. Optimise performance + content
    5. Find partners to link to your web site      



QUICK audit

    Google integrated in the dev tools a quick automated audit process
    that gives recommendations. Really detailed and precise. Run that one first

    Nibbler is the second step, gives a second viewpoint to consolidate 

    This step should give you a quick idea on how to optimise any website quicklu

Keyword search

    Google is moving more towards search intent but keywords are still important
    and easy to implement. The intent is also pretty important so don't limit
    optimisation for single keywords but also expression/questions that your website
    is answering. 

    First step is finding the basics. Brainstorm about potential search that
    a potential client would use to search you on google. 

    Once list is decent, use the following tools to validate and explore 

    1. google keyword planner
    2. kwfinder
    3. Answer the public

    The goal is to find related search with your main ideas with high 
    search volume and low competition.

    Next step is to follow the website in competition, 
    look at what kw they are using and see if you can re-use same ones or 
    related ones.

    If store is local, add location and picture with
        Google My Business

    That way the Pigeon Algorythm is going to be able to index your website more
    successfuly. 


Optimise Performance and content

    Performance - use the results from the audit to ajust. 

        common things that may be quick to fix are <head> meta-description
        image compression, limit the dependencies and make it responsive
        and mobile friendly

    Content - The actual text on the site

        only one <h1> per website and should be determined based on key expression
        <h2> should be used for subtitles and should correspond to key expressions
        or synonyms. The keywords should also appear in <p> tags. NEVER spam
        keywords, try to use synonyms and different relevant expressions based
        on the keyword section. Meta-description and title in the <head> tag 
        are super important. Also any images must have an alt attribute with
        a short description in case browser dosent support image or any problem
        occurs. crawlers have an easier work indexing with that too. 

        Any website should have a dedicated space for content.   
        (Newsletter,blog...)  
        And new content should be added regularly. The content should be aligned
        with the keywords.

Find partners

    Thrust score :

    Quality and quantity of links to your website. 
    Find bloggers, partners, authorities and ask them to link at your 
    website whenever possible

    Also having a Facebook, a twitter, linkedin and intagram account is 
    a must. Might not focus on all of them but at least having the account
    up and reposting content when possible. 


SEO STRATEGY

Google analytics + Google Search console.

These two tools are easy to use and give all the relevant data. 

// more info on google analytics and google Search console later


